# Bus N Bike
Improving Bike Share Options Using Bus and Bike Usage Data
SteelHacks Fall 2024

Team Members: 
Jessica Hsin (jeh339@pitt.edu), Jason Xie (jxx2@pitt.edu), David Shi (dzs19@pitt.edu), Aidan Van't Hof (alv115@pitt.edu)

## Check Out the Devpost and Video Here!
https://devpost.com/software/asdf-egy4h2

## Description

This project aims to identify optimal locations for new bike stations in a city by analyzing existing bike rack ridership data and bus stop ridership data. The analysis leverages Python libraries like Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, and Seaborn.

Our program: 
Visualizes bike rack and bus station locations with color-coded markers representing their total ridership (higher frequency = warmer colors),
Identifies potential areas for new bike stations based on high bus stop usage (indicating high potential demand for bike rentals/returns) and current bike racks which lack enough bikes to support its high usage.

The project requires two CSV files:

tripDataPOGOH.csv: Contains detailed trip data about bike usage, including start and end stations, timestamps, etc. (Replace "POGOH" with your actual data source name).
david_bus.csv: Contains bus stop ridership data, including stop names, latitude/longitude coordinates, boarding counts, date/time information.

## Instructions:
### Data Setup
Bash
pip install pandas numpy matplotlib seaborn
Run the mostUsedBusBikeStops.py for the generation of the locations of bus stations and bike racks with colors relating to their usage.

### Frontend
Check the README of the inner directory hackathon-bike for more information on how to run the website.

### Backend
The backend utilizes Flask and Google's Gemini AI API. Run `pip3 install flask google.generativeai`. To run, run the file normally; it should run on 127.0.0.1:5000 (at least that's what the front end is set to send files to). Naturally, a Google Gemini API key is also needed. A key is indeed in the source code, but soon (as of 29 September 2024) will be disabled and a new key will need to be generated by the user. This key should ideally be for Gemini Pro.

## Disclaimer
Some components of the project are not yet implemented such as conversion between Python and JavaScript. For that specific instance, we instead had the backend save CSV files which we then stored locally and fed into JavaScript. Additionally, ChatGPT and Gemini were used in the making of this project.
